#!/usr/bin/perl -w

=head1 NAME

dh_installinit - install metainit files into package build directories

=cut

use strict;
use Debian::Debhelper::Dh_Lib;

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dh_installmetainit> [S<I<debhelper options>>] [B<--name=>I<name>] [B<-n>] [B<-r>] [B<-d>] [S<B<--> I<params>>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dh_installinit is a debhelper program that is responsible for installing
init scripts and associated defaults files into package build directories.

It also automatically generates the postinst and postrm and prerm commands
needed to set up the symlinks in /etc/rc*.d/ and to start and stop the init
scripts.

If a file named debian/package.init exists, then it is installed into
etc/init.d/package in the package build directory, with "package" replaced
by the package name.

If a file named debian/package.default exists, then it is installed into
etc/default/package in the package build directory, with "package" replaced
by the package name.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-n>, B<--noscripts>

Do not modify postinst/postrm/prerm scripts.

=item B<-o>, B<--onlyscripts>

Only modify postinst/postrm/prerm scripts, do not actually install any init
script or default files. May be useful if the init script is shipped and/or
installed by upstream in a way that doesn't make it easy to let
dh_installinit find it.

=item B<-r>, B<--no-restart-on-upgrade>

Do not restart init script on upgrade.

=item B<--no-start>

Do not start the init script on install or upgrade, or stop it on removal.
Only call update-rc.d. Useful for rcS scripts.

=item B<-u>I<params> B<--update-rcd-params=>I<params>

=item B<--> I<params>

Pass "params" to L<update-metainit(8)>.

=item B<--name=>I<name>

Install the init script (and default file) using the filename I<name>
instead of the default filename, which is the package name. When this
parameter is used, dh_installinit looks for and installs files named
debian/package.name.init and debian/package.name.default, instead of the
usual debian/package.init and debian/package.default.

=item B<--init-script=>I<scriptname>

Use "scriptname" as the filename the init script is installed as in
etc/init.d/ (and also use it as the filename for the defaults file, if it
is installed). If you use this parameter, dh_installinit will look to see
if a file in the debian/ directory exists that looks like
"package.scriptname" and if so will install it as the init script in
preference to the files it normally installs.

This parameter is deprecated, use the --name parameter instead.

=item B<--error-handler=>I<function>

Call the named shell function if running the init script fails. The
function should be provided in the prerm and postinst scripts, before the
#DEBHELPER# token.

=back

=head1 NOTES

Note that this command is not idempotent. "dh_clean -k" should be called
between invocations of this command. Otherwise, it may cause multiple
instances of the same text to be added to maintainer scripts.

=cut

init();

foreach my $package (@{$dh{DOPACKAGES}}) {
	my $tmp=tmpdir($package);

	# Figure out what filename to install it as.
	# TODO: get $script from the metainit file
	my $script;
	if (defined $dh{NAME}) {
		$script=$dh{NAME};
	}
	elsif ($dh{INIT_SCRIPT}) {
		$script=$dh{INIT_SCRIPT};
	}
	else {
		$script=$package;
	}       
	
	my $init=pkgfile($package,$script) || pkgfile($package,'metainit')
	my $default=pkgfile($package,'default');

	if ($default ne '' && ! $dh{ONLYSCRIPTS}) {
		if (! -d "$tmp/etc/default") {
			doit("install","-d","$tmp/etc/default");
		}
		doit("install","-p","-m644",$default,"$tmp/etc/default/$script");
	}

	if ($init ne '' || $dh{ONLYSCRIPTS}) {
		if (! $dh{ONLYSCRIPTS}) {
			if (! -d "$tmp/etc/metainit") {
				doit("install","-d","$tmp/etc/metainit");
			}
		
			doit("install","-p","-m755",$init,"$tmp/etc/metainit/$script");
		}
		
		# This is set by the -u "foo" command line switch, it's
		# the parameters to pass to update-rc.d. If not set,
		# we have to say "defaults".
		my $params='';
		if (defined($dh{U_PARAMS})) {
			$params=join(' ',@{$dh{U_PARAMS}});
		}	
		if ($params eq '') {
			$params="defaults";
		}

		if (! $dh{NOSCRIPTS}) {
			if (! $dh{NO_START}) {
				# update-rc.d, and start script
				autoscript($package,"postinst", "postinst-metainit",
					"s/#SCRIPT#/$script/;s/#INITPARMS#/$params/;s/#ERROR_HANDLER#/$dh{ERROR_HANDLER}/");

				if ($dh{R_FLAG}) {
					# stops script only on remove
					autoscript($package,"prerm","prerm-metainit-norestart",
						"s/#SCRIPT#/$script/;s/#INITPARMS#/$params/;s/#ERROR_HANDLER#/$dh{ERROR_HANDLER}/");
				}
				else {
					# always stops script
					autoscript($package,"prerm","prerm-metainit",
						"s/#SCRIPT#/$script/;s/#INITPARMS#/$params/;s/#ERROR_HANDLER#/$dh{ERROR_HANDLER}/");
				}
			}
			else {
				# just update-rc.d
				autoscript($package,"postinst", "postinst-metainit-nostart",
					"s/#SCRIPT#/$script/;s/#INITPARMS#/$params/;s/#ERROR_HANDLER#/$dh{ERROR_HANDLER}/");
			}

			# removes rc.d links
			autoscript($package,"postrm","postrm-metainit",
				"s/#SCRIPT#/$script/;s/#INITPARMS#/$params/;s/#ERROR_HANDLER#/$dh{ERROR_HANDLER}/");
		}
	}
}

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<debhelper(7)>

This program is a part of debhelper.

=head1 AUTHOR

Urs Ganse <urs@nerd2nerd.org>
based on dh_installinit by
Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>

=cut
